---
title: Youtube Adds New Parental Control Features to Make the Platform More Suitable for Tweens and Teens
Author: Atharv Pawar
---

We all know and love Youtube, but it is apparent that it is not quite suitable for all ages. To combat this problem Youtube launched Youtube Kids. But one age group still did not have a proper environment on Youtube for their needs. Teens and tweens had to choose between Youtube Kids or Youtube. One that is oriented towards children and the other that has adult content. Many tweens who were coming out of the Youtube Kids environment didn’t have a suitable place to watch their favorite Youtube videos without seeing videos targeted at adult audiences. To solve this issue, parents used supervised Google accounts. This allowed parents to restrict access across a range of products and services, control screen time, filter websites, and more. But the new app does more than that! It allows viewers of certain ages to view a broad range of videos generally suited for their age. This is very helpful because it allows kids to watch things like their favorite gaming streamer with kid-friendly content, but would prevent them from finding their way to content meant for other ages. Like movies are PG-13, Youtube has the same for older teens. This is called “Most of Youtube”, and it includes all videos on Youtube except for age-restricted content which is for viewers above the age of 18. All of these new features are set up through a combination of user input, machine learning, and human review. Youtube will also add more features like disabling in-app purchases, video creation and commenting features at launch. These new features allow parents to give access to content that they think is suitable for their child.


That is it for today, stay tuned for future posts! 


