---
title: The testing of new anti harassing tool by Instagram
author: Krrish Verma
---


Adam Mosseri, the head of Instagram, recently confirmed that Instagram is testing a brand new feature known as "Limits."

So What is Limits?
Limits is a feature that allows you to temporarily lock your account if you are being harassed or targeted by a flood of harassment.


How do we know about it?
Recently on Instagram, Platform racism took place following the Euro 2020 Finals Adam condemned it and said that the company is working towards internal and customer-based tools to help address the issue.


Previously the company commented on the racist abuse with England Footballers being harassed by the fans after the team's defeat. Adam told that time company was prioritizing user reports and mistakenly marked some reports as benign comments. Moreover, many harassing comments were using emojis, which Instagram's system struggled to understand as emojis have different meanings in different situations.


Mosseri mentioned that the company had fixed the issue since then, and Instagram has been proactively sweeping footballer's comments. However, they still have not anticipated user reports. He said that the company receives millions of user reports per day, and getting one percent of the wrong leads to problematic situations.

The Already Available Tools:
Mosseri mentioned several user-facing tools that are already available and allow people to deal directly with harassment on their accounts and prevent abuse. The tools include Instagram's Block and Restrict option. A latter tool is also there that allows the account owner to approve comments before they are posted. Recently, Hidden Words was introduced that will enable users to block some words both in comments and direct messages.


Mosseri also added that the Limits feature could have helped footballers a lot and allowed them to limit the comment and reactions.


That is it for today stay tuned for future blog posts.


